.TH CADO.CONF 5 "June 23, 2016" "VirtualSquare Labs"
.SH NAME
cado.conf \- Capability Ambient DO: configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fB/etc/cado.conf\fR file is used to configure which ambient cabalities can be provided by \fBcado\fR to users.
\fBcado\fR uses the capability cap_dac_read_search to access \fB/etc/cado.conf\fR, so this configuration does not
need to be readable by users.

All lines beginning with the sign '#' are comments.

Non-comment lines have the following syntax
.nf
       \fIlist_of_capabilities\fB:\fI list_of_users_and_groups\fR
.fi
or
.nf
       \fIlist_of_capabilities\fB:\fI list_of_users_and_groups\fB:\fR \fIlist_of_auth_commands\fR
.fi

Both \fIlist_of_capabilities\fR and \fIlist_of_users_and_groups\fR are comma separated lists of identifiers.

Items of \fIlist_of_capabilities\fR are capability names or capability masks (exadecimal numbers).
For brevity, the \fBcap_\fR prefix of capability names can be omitted (e.g. \fBnet_admin\fR and \fBcap_net_admin\fR
have the same meaning).

Items of \fIlist_of_users_and_groups\fR are usernames or groupnames (groupnames must be prefexed by '@').

\fIlist_of_auth_commands\fR is a command or a list of commands separated by semicolon (;). If present, cado runs
all the sequence of commands it grants the capabilities as defined in the current line only if all return zero as
their exit status.

Example of \fBcado.conf\fR file:

.nf
	# Capability Ambient DO configuration file
	# cado.conf
	
	net_admin: @netadmin,renzo: /usr/bin/logger cado net_admin $USER; /bin/echo OK
	net_admin: @privatenet: /usr/local/lib/cado_autorize_privatenet
	net_admin,net_bind_service,net_raw,net_broadcast: @vxvdex
	cap_kill: renzo
.fi

In this example the renzo's processes can be granted (by \fBcado\fR) cap_net_admin and cap_kill.
cap_net_admin can be acquired by processes owned by users belonging to the netadmin group.
Users in vxvdex can provide their processes with a subset of cap_net_admin, cap_net_bind_service, cap_net_raw and cap_net_broadcast

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcado\fR(1),
\fBcaprint\fR(1),
\fBcapabilities\fR(7)
